feat: add blog on web api v1.5 (#202)
arcus-azure/arcus: community/blog/2022-04 Interesting new hooks and .NET 6 support in Arcus WebAPI v1.5/README.md

# Interesting new hooks and .NET 6 support in Arcus WebAPI v1.5
Lots of new interesting things are now available in Arcus WebAPI. This blog will run-down some of these new features.

## Request tracking with custom body serialization for reducing personal information

> [Request tracking](https://webapi.arcus-azure.net/features/logging/) was already available in a couple of versions of [Arcus Web API](https://webapi.arcus-azure.net/). The tracking functionality allowed several options plus several routing filters on when/where the request tracking should take place. This request tracking functionality is also capable of sanitizing a custom set of headers that needs to be tracked. The reason for this customization is because some headers should never be tracked, for example authentication headers

Author: Yes, will add! 👍 thx!

> [Request tracking](https://webapi.arcus-azure.net/features/logging/) was already available in a couple of versions of [Arcus Web API](https://webapi.arcus-azure.net/). The tracking functionality allowed several options plus several routing filters on when/where the request tracking should take place. This request tracking functionality is also capable of sanitization a custom set of headers that needs to be tracked. The reason for this customization is because some headers should never be tracked. Authentication headers comes to mind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Request tracking](https://webapi.arcus-azure.net/features/logging/) was already available in a couple of versions of [Arcus Web API](https://webapi.arcus-azure.net/). The tracking functionality allowed several options plus several routing filters on when/where the request tracking should take place. This request tracking functionality is also capable of sanitizing a custom set of headers that needs to be tracked. The reason for this customization is because some headers should never be tracked, for example authentication headers
```

> While this is a very helpful feature, the customization was missing something crucial: we don't allow custom sanitization of the request/response body. This, too, can contain sensitive or personal information that should not be exposed in any logging system. Arcus Web API v1.5 solved this the same way the sanitization of headers occurs: with overidable functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this is a very helpful feature, the customization was missing something crucial: we don't allow custom sanitization of the request/response body. This, too, can contain sensitive or personal information that should not be exposed in any logging system. Arcus Web API v1.5 solves this the same way the sanitization of headers occurs: with overridable functionality.
```

> Here a rudimentary(!) example of what this could look like. Note that all overridable functionality is optional and doesn't have to be overridden.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is a rudimentary(!) example of what this could look like. Note that all overridable functionality is optional and doesn't have to be overridden.
```

> Here a rudimentary(!) example of what this could look like. Note that all overidable functionality is optional and doesn't have to be overridden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here a rudimentary(!) example of what this could look like. Note that all overridable functionality is optional and doesn't have to be overridden.
```

    }
}
```

This custom-made request tracking middleware can then be given to the registration of the request tracking so that next time a request is processed, the personal and/or sensitive information is filtered-out from the tracking.

```csharp
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder;
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting;

public class Startup
{
    public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)
    {
        app.UseRouting();

        app.UseRequestTracking<PIIRequestTrackingMiddleware>();

        ...
        app.UseMvc();
    }
}
```

## Built-in JSON formatting extensions
Our [Arcus Web API project template](https://templates.arcus-azure.net/features/web-api-template) is using several great and highly recommended approaches to start off your project. One of these approaches is to limit the input/output formatting of models to only JSON formatting. What this means is that the registered input/output formatters were inspected and altered. While this is a valuable addition to the Web API project template, it is still somewhat boilerplate code that with its inspection code doesn't make the template a very user-friendly or clean place to work in.

> Arcus Web API v1.5 changed this. In a new library called `Arcus.WebApi.Hosting`, we have added extensions on the MVC options so that this JSON formatting limitation can be added in a more fluent manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arcus Web API v1.5 changes this. In a new library called `Arcus.WebApi.Hosting`, we have added extensions on the MVC options so that this JSON formatting limitation can be added in a more fluent manner.
```

```csharp
using System.Text.Json.Serialization;
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;

public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddMvc(mvcOptions => 
    {
        // Limit the available input/output formatting to only JSON formatting.
        mvcOptions.OnlyAllowJsonFormatting();

        // Configure that single (JSON) formatting. 
        mvcOptions.ConfigureJsonFormatting(jsonOptions =>
        {
            jsonOptions.IgnoreNullValues = true;
            jsonOptions.Converters.Add(new JsonStringEnumConverter());
        }
    });
}
```

> These extensions will greatly help make the Arcus Web API project not ony more easier understandable but more maintainable too. If we choose to change internal workings or additional built-in JSON features, we can update our extensions instead of altering the actual internal code of the project template. A cleaner approach for both consumers as maintainers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These extensions will greatly help make the Arcus Web API project not only easier to understand but more maintainable too. If we choose to change internal workings or additional built-in JSON features, we can update our extensions instead of altering the actual internal code of the project template. A cleaner approach for both consumers and maintainers.
```

```csharp
using Arcus.Security.Core;
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.JwtBearer;
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;

public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddSecretStore(stores => ...)
            .AddAuthentication(JwtBearerDefaults.AuthenticationScheme)
            .AddJwtBearer((jwt, serviceProvider) =>
            {
                // Get the Arcus secret store provider
                var secretProvider = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<ISecretProvider>();
                
                // Retrieve signing key.
                string key = secretProvider.GetRawSecretAsync(secretName).GetAwaiter().GetResult();
                
                // Provide signing key to JWT Bearer validation parameters.
                jwt.TokenValidationParameters = new TokenValidationParameters 
                {  
                    IssuerSigningKey = new SymmetricSecurityKey(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes(key))
                }
            });
}
```

## .NET 6 support

> Last but definitely not least, is the long-awaited update for .NET 6 support. Arcus Web API is a massively used library and was lingering behind due to the almost-deprecated .NET Core target framework. This update ends this struggle while still support .NET Core support for whoever needs it. This change is part in a long process in which we are making Arcus in its entirety fully .NET 6 compatible. This is not the final step on the entire Arcus front, but is the last step on the Web API front.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Last but definitely not least, is the long-awaited update for .NET 6 support. Arcus Web API is a massively used library and was lingering behind due to the almost-deprecated .NET Core target framework. This update ends this struggle while still supporting .NET Core for whoever needs it. This change is part in a long process in which we are making Arcus in its entirety fully .NET 6 compatible. This is not the final step on the entire Arcus front, but is the last step on the Web API front.
```
